---
title: Untitled
layout: fieldnote
type: blog
---
\\(\dfrac{x}\\)


In a recent teachers' conference, there was a talk about teaching calculus, whether, why and why not  \\(\dv*{y}{x}\\) can be treated as a ratio. The speaker discussed how school textbooks handle this and what kinds of confusions students bring to college as a result. I realised I had never considered this as a conceptual difficulty. Perhaps because of my physics background, \(\dv*{}{x}\) has always felt as a rate of change. In physics, we constantly use derivatives to study how one quantity changes with respect to another. So, I have never thought of \(\dv*{y}{x}\) as a ratio in a literal sense.

Before I could say anything, someone in the audience asked whether these confusions could be addressed by introducing students to simple mechanics problems, to help them grasp calculus through physical examples. The speaker replied that this would not work in general, since the course is designed for students who might never study physics, and the instructor may not have the background to teach mechanics-based interpretations of mathematics.

That was when I realised something about how I think: whenever I encounter a mathematical expression, function, or equation, my mind automatically looks for the physical phenomenon it could describe. For me, \(\dv*{y}{x}\) is always tied to rates and changes in physical systems.

Then another teacher asked, "What about the ratio of two double integrals?" It felt to me like a question asked just for the sake of asking because I could not, at that moment (or now), think of any physical situation where one would take the ratio of two double integrals. The face I made was probably too clear about what I was thinking. A mathematician then confirmed that a lot of what they pursue or would like to pursue need not always be rooted in having to solve or understand a physical problem. I want more scientists to admit to this, the problems they're pursuing is not necessarily for solving a real-world problem, sometimes, it's to satisfy a curiosity, stop an itch that's result of not knowing!