---
layout: fieldnote
type: blog
---
This was written with Yama Budo. The color makes me want to write.

I was last in Delhi in 2019. I was on the way back to college after meeting my brother in Dehradun. I had no plans to attend my graduation. I was unhappy with the way it all ended. _I could have done better_ was a thought that crossed my mind every time I finished an exam, test, or submitted an assignment. I would tell myself that I would do it better the next time, the next test, the next semester. Attending graduation meant acknowledging that this was the epilogue, that there was no next time. That my fate was sealed.

NISER took it a step further. Unlike any other university in the world, they printed your GPA up to two decimal places on your master's certificate. Our master's certificates are as good as our transcripts. Our transcripts may have spelling mistakes, depending on the elective courses that you took.

I should buy a bottle of Yama Budo. Maybe I should sample other colors that Pilot's Iroshizuku seroes has? They are so good with this one surely they have crafted the other ones just as well.

I am writing all this sitting in a café in SDA Market, opposite IIT Delhi. I ordered a medium coffee - this café does not do large. I am in this part of Delhi to hang out with my friend is staying in the posh, tree-lined, and beautiful SDA. She is renting. Why is my broke-ass friend renting in a posh neighborhood? Don't you dare ask. It is the trees, the green tiles in the bathroom, the nice house owner.

A year ago, I was renting in Chennai, paying a third of my salary, spending hours on commute for the very same reasons. Trees, a civil house owner who did not ask for caste details (unlike many other house owners that wanted to know my caste, marital status, the design of my mother's tali), and the bathroom! The bathroom’s shower area was in a lower-floor setting. This meant that the toilet and washbasin could be kept dry, which meant I could keep the bathroom clean.

I am sitting in a café right behind the place where I sat with a shawarma and beer eight years ago. It was 2016. I was doing a summer internship at IUAC. IUAC’s access to Delhi was via Hauz Khas. Hauz Khas is where IIT Delhi is. My friends at IIT Delhi were in love with the canteen - or so it seemed. Okay, no, in reality, they had paid in advance for a month in the campus mess and would not get a refund if they skipped a meal. This meant that I had to either make new friends or go places alone. I did both. Acquainted myself with some wonderful people. Roamed around Delhi all by myself.

If I did not do a particular thing in Delhi that summer, it was probably because it cost a lot or I did not have that kind of time.
